Here Is The Latest Breakdown Of Fed Hawks And Doves
2017-05-24 17:20:00+00:00
ahead of today's fomc minutes, ubs reminds us that there has been substantial turnover on the fomc, and so the swiss bank has updated its periodic commentary on fomc participants, as well as its popular "hawk-dove" chart. while many of the actors are well-known, there are some unknowns and unfamiliar faces, with more to come. the biggest unknowns are raphael bostic, the brand new president in atlanta and how the richmond fed will factor into the debate after jeffrey lacker's departure. in addition, with three vacancies on the board and chair yellen and vice chair fischer's terms ending early next year, there will be considerable turnover. here is the full breakdown of the fed's latest "nest", from ubs' seth carpenter. the new scale first, raphael bostic, the new president of the federal reserve bank of atlanta has not established a track record to judge. that said, bostic is a very smart, well-trained economist, who is comfortable mixing theory and empirical work, so a good guess is that he will not initially be at either extreme. also uncertain is the role of the federal reserve bank of richmond. jeff lacker resigned after acknowledging leaking fomc information in 2012. the first vice president of the bank gets to take his place, but it is hard to know how that will play out. richmond is not a voting member this year, so the distinction is slightly less critical. among the hawks on our scale, the easiest calls are esther george (frb-kansas city) and patrick harker (frb-philadelphia). both have been consistently hawkish in tone. loretta mester (frb-cleveland) is a career fed economist, having worked for charlie plosser (a noted hawk) at the philadelphia fed. she is less doctrinally hawkish than her old boss and takes a nuanced view of the data, although she usually interprets  them with something of a hawkish tilt. eric rosengren (frb-boston) has become hawkish in recent years, motivated less by inflation fears than by financial stability concerns. his policy prescriptions have become consistently to the hawkish side of the committee. we see a large set of centrists on the committee, large enough to shade some participants to one side or the other. a final note on voting. we have separated voters from non-voters, as is customary. one should keep in mind, however, that in practice, all fomc participants take part in the debate. the recording of the vote and number of dissents matters, but the fomc has been run as a consensus-driven body for a long time, and the distinction between voter and non-voter is typically overstated. and visually: tips: tips [ at ] zerohedge.com general: info [ at ] zerohedge.com legal: legal [ at ] zerohedge.com advertising: ads [ at ] zerohedge.com abuse/complaints: abuse [ at ] zerohedge.com advertise with us make sure to read our " how to [read/tip off] zero hedge without attracting the interest of [human resources/the treasury/black helicopters] " guide it would be very wise of you to study our disclaimer , our privacy policy and our (non)policy on conflicts / full disclosure . here's our cookie policy . how to report offensive comments notice on racial discrimination .
