Janet Yellen To Hold Previously Unannounced Speech On Monday, Take Twitter Questions
2017-04-06 15:21:00+00:00
on monday, april 10, janet yellen will hold a previously unannounced speech at the gerald ford school of public policy at the university of michigan, the school announced on its website this morning. the speech is expected to last from 4pm until 5:15pm, and will be free and open to the public. yellen will take questions from the audience and in a notable departure from her previous discussions, she will also take questions from twitter. to join the conversation on the social platform use the #fordschoolyellen hashtag. while the topic of her prepared remarks, if any, is unclear, we are confident a key issue under discussion will be the fed minutes warning that stock prices, at least according to some fomc members, are "too high." from the school's website : janet yellen, chair of the u.s. federal reserve system when: monday, april 10, 2017;  4:00 pm to 5:15 pm location:  rackham auditorium, 915 e washington st, ann arbor, mi 48109 policy talks @ the ford school free and open to the public. join the conversation: #fordschoolyellen this event will be live webstreamed. you will be able to view the stream the day of the event on the official event stream viewing page. seating pass required. please check back here for updates. update (3/20/17): no tickets for this event remain at muto. please plan to watch the live webstream. it's possible that a limited number of seats will come open within a few days of the event; please check this page or follow us on twitter for updates. ford school students, faculty, and staff will receive information via email about how to secure their free pass, which will be available starting march 14. free tickets will be available to the general public beginning march 20 at the michigan union ticket office. limit two per person. muto hours and location here . about the event: please join us as janet yellen visits the university of michigan for a conversation with susan m. collins, joan and sanford weill dean of the gerald r. ford school of public policy. chair yellen will also take questions from the audience and from twitter. from the speaker's bio: janet l. yellen took office as chair of the board of governors of the federal reserve system on february 3, 2014, for a four-year term ending february 3, 2018. dr. yellen also serves as chairman of the federal open market committee, the system's principal monetary policymaking body. prior to her appointment as chair, dr. yellen served as vice chair of the board of governors, taking office in october 2010, when she simultaneously began a 14-year term as a member of the board that will expire january 31, 2024. dr. yellen is professor emeritus at the university of california at berkeley where she was the eugene e. and catherine m. trefethen professor of business and professor of economics and has been a faculty member since 1980. dr. yellen took leave from berkeley for five years starting august 1994. she served as a member of the board of governors of the federal reserve system through february 1997, and then left the federal reserve to become chair of the council of economic advisers through august 1999. she also chaired the economic policy committee of the organization for economic cooperation and development from 1997 to 1999. she also served as president and chief executive officer of the federal reserve bank of san francisco from 2004 to 2010. dr. yellen is a member of both the council on foreign relations and the american academy of arts and sciences. she has served as president of the western economic association, vice president of the american economic association and a fellow of the yale corporation. tips: tips [ at ] zerohedge.com general: info [ at ] zerohedge.com legal: legal [ at ] zerohedge.com advertising: ads [ at ] zerohedge.com abuse/complaints: abuse [ at ] zerohedge.com advertise with us make sure to read our " how to [read/tip off] zero hedge without attracting the interest of [human resources/the treasury/black helicopters] " guide it would be very wise of you to study our disclaimer , our privacy policy and our (non)policy on conflicts / full disclosure . here's our cookie policy . how to report offensive comments notice on racial discrimination .
