(CNN)Remember that huge back tattoo Ben Affleck said was fake?

Apparently not so much.
The "Justice League" star was recently photographed shirtless and the colorful phoenix in flight was on full display.
In 2016 Affleck told "Extra" the tat was "fake for a movie."
"I actually do have a number of tattoos, but I try to have them in places where you don't have to do a lot of cover up." he said. "They get sort of addictive, tattoos, after awhile."
Naturally the internet had a field day.
"Next time you're feeling sad, remember that you're not Ben Affleck so you (probably) don't have a tattoo so big and so ugly and so universally ridiculed that you had to lie and say it was only temporary and just for a movie when it is so clearly not," one person tweeted.
View image on Twitter
View image on Twitter
 
Crystal Methanny
@RafiDAngelo
Next time you're feeling sad, remember that you're not Ben Affleck so you (probably) don't have a tattoo so big and so ugly and so universally ridiculed that you had to lie and say it was only temporary and just for a movie when it is so clearly not. (http://people.com/movies/ben-affleck-shows-off-back-tattoo-after-claiming-fake/ ¡K)

11:54 PM - Mar 18, 2018
283
86 people are talking about this
Twitter Ads info and privacy
17 Mar

Sarah
@Cinesnark
Replying to @Cinesnark
Every time Ben Affleck pops up in this instantly iconic photo set pic.twitter.com/LSFVWuP5Z9

 
Sarah
@Cinesnark
Ben Affleck: The phoenix tattoo is fake for a movie.

Also Ben Affleck: pic.twitter.com/k97oa0ld12

4:00 AM - Mar 17, 2018
View image on Twitter
37
15 people are talking about this
Twitter Ads info and privacy
View image on Twitter
View image on Twitter
 
Eva Palmer
@Eva_Palmer
Sarah Jessica Parker liking this Instagram post about Ben Affleck¡¦s awful back tattoo is the funniest thing I have seen in 2018.

1:09 AM - Mar 19, 2018
21
See Eva Palmer's other Tweets
Twitter Ads info and privacy
The tattoo has also earned a thumbs down from some people closer to Affleck.
Former fiancee Jennifer Lopez was asked about it two years ago during an appearance on "Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen."
"It's awful, what are you doing," Lopez said at the time. "His tattoos always have too many colors. They shouldn't be so colorful."

Around the same time Jennifer Garner discussed it in a Vanity Fair article after she and Affleck announced their marriage was over.
The actress told the magazine "You know what we would say in my hometown about that? 'Bless his heart.' "
"A phoenix rising from the ashes," Garner said. "Am I the ashes in this scenario? I take umbrage. I refuse to be the ashes."